WIP: updated the instructions on how to utilize http tags (#2500)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: tyk-docs/content/tyk-apis/tyk-gateway-api/api-definition-objects/custom-analytics.md

    parent: "API Definition Objects"
weight: 9
aliases:
  - /tyk-rest-api/api-definition-objects/custom-analytics/
---

> `tag_headers` is a string array of HTTP headers that can be extracted and transformed into tags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`tag_headers` is a string array of HTTP headers that can be extracted and transformed into [analytic tags]({{< ref "tyk-dashboard-analytics" >}})(statistics aggregated by tag, per hour).
```

For example if you include `X-test-header` header in the `tag_headers` array, then, for each incoming request Tyk will add a `x-test-header-<header_value>` tag to the list of tags in the request analytic record.

## When is it useful?

Example use cases are:

- If you need to record additional information from the request into the analytics, without enabling [detailed logging]({{<ref "tyk-oss-gateway/configuration#analytics_configenable_detailed_recording">}}). Detailed logging records the full request and response objects which consumes a lot of space.

- If you wish to track a group of API requests. For example:

  - Show me all API requests where `tenant-id=123`
  - Show me all API requests where `user-group=abc`

## Tags and aggregated analytics

> Tyk Gateway, by default, creates aggregations for the tags it records. Since we are making the header name that is recorded part of the tag value, Tyk, will also add an aggregation point for that tag value in the aggregated analytics, i.e. `x-test-header-<header_value>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tyk Gateway, by default, creates aggregations points for all the tags it records. Since we are making the header name that is recorded part of the tag value, Tyk, will also add an aggregation point for that tag value in the aggregated analytics, i.e. `x-test-header-<header_value>`.
```

> ### How to specify which tags are ignored for aggregated analytics?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How to avoid the creation of aggregation analytics?
```

It is possible to configure a list of tags that are ignored when writing aggregated analytics to MongoDB. This can be configured for Tyk Pump and MDCB.

{{< warning success >}}
**Warning**

> If you add to the tags list headers that are **unique** per request, like timestamp or [X-Request-Id]({{<ref "context-variables#the-available-context-variables-are" >}}), then Tyk Gateway will essentially create an aggregation point \*_per request_, and the number of these tags in an hour will be equal to the number of requests.

Reviewer: what is this "\*_per request_"

<br/>
Since there's no real value in aggregating something that has a total of 1 and also the hourly aggregation documents can grow very quickly, we recommend to always add the header name to the ignore list as follows:

    "ignore_tag_prefix_list": [ "x-request-id" ]

{{< /warning >}}

- **Tyk Pump**: Add the tags to ignore, or their prefixes, to `ignore_tag_prefix_list` in `pump.conf`.
- **MDCB**: Add tags to ignore, or their prefixes, to `ignore_tag_prefix_list` in `tyk_sink.conf` at root level. (Please note that this field is replacing `aggregates_ignore_tags` which is still working but will eventually be deprecated).

>   If you don't want to have aggregation for these tags you can add them or their prefixes to `ignore_tag_prefix_list` in `pump.conf` in case the pump is writing the aggregated analytics to MongoDB. Alternatively, in case MDCB is doing the writing to mongoDB, set the same field in `tyk_sink.conf` at root level (please note that this field is replacing `aggregates_ignore_tags` which is still working but will eventually be deprecated).

Reviewer: This text doesn't appear well in the preview

Reviewer 2: @letzya do you want me to remove the backticks?

weight: 9
aliases:
    - /tyk-rest-api/api-definition-objects/custom-analytics/
--- 

{{< include "api-def-custom-analytics" >}}

Configuration:

In the Dashboard, with an API configured, click in to your newly created API and head to Advanced Options. 

Navigate down to the Tag Headers section and pass in `X-Request-Id` to the Header Tag array. 

![Tag Headers](/docs/img/custom-analytics-tags/header-tags-1.png)

In Postman, pass in the header and provide a value for it and make some requests. 

![Postman](/docs/img/custom-analytics-tags/postman-1.png)

Navigate back to the Dashboard and select the Log Browser to view detailed logging. Under Gateway Metadata, we can find the Tags attached to our request and should be able to see the header and value was injected as a tag.

![Headers Injected](/docs/img/custom-analytics-tags/headers-injected-as-tags-1.png)

> This can be useful as you filter tags to gain additional information about how your API is being consumed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is useful if you wish to track aggregate API requests.  For example
- Show me all API requests where `tenant-id=123` 
- Show me all API requests where `user-id=abc`

And so-on.  We can now have Tyk track API requests which contain our business logic.
```

weight: 9
aliases:
    - /tyk-rest-api/api-definition-objects/custom-analytics/
--- 

{{< include "api-def-custom-analytics" >}}

> Configuration:

Reviewer: make it a header please

Author: done

In the Dashboard, with an API configured, click in to your newly created API and head to Advanced Options. 

Navigate down to the Tag Headers section and pass in `X-Request-Id` to the Header Tag array. 

> ![Tag Headers](/docs/img/custom-analytics-tags/header-tags-1.png)

Reviewer: can you please change it to this format `{{< img src="/img/dashboard/system-management/jwt_default_policy.png" alt="Default JWT Policy" >}}` - it's using ourshortcodefor images. thanks

Author: made the changes

> {{< img src="/img/custom-analytics-tags/header-tags-1.png" alt="Tag Headers" >}}

Reviewer: why have we named the image header-tags-1.png and not header-tags.png

Reviewer: Also - please move all the images under `assets/img` (static is used for other things)

Author: renamed images and moved the folder to correct location

> In Postman, pass in the header and provide a value for it and make some requests. 

Reviewer: THis needs to be a bit more generic since people might not necessarily use postman (FYI @sedkis ).

For example - 
```
Using your preferred HTTP client, pass the X-Request-Id` header and then make some requests
```

Author: changed line 22 to be more generic

> {{< img src="/img/custom-analytics-tags/postman-1" alt="Postman" >}}

Reviewer: also, we need to screenshot the whole Postman window, as it looks out of context and not even Postman. I suggest using curl as an example, as we do in the rest of the docs `curl....-H "x-request-id: bla"`

> {{< img src="/img/custom-analytics-tags/postman-1" alt="Postman" >}}

Author: changed image to reflect curl command rather than postman.

Navigate back to the Dashboard and select the Log Browser to view detailed logging. Under Gateway Metadata, we can find the Tags attached to our request and should be able to see the header and value was injected as a tag.

> {{< img src="/img/custom-analytics-tags/headers-injected-as-tags-1.png" alt="Headers Injected" >}}

Reviewer: why have we added `1` to the image name?

Reviewer: Also is it possible to add better quality images?

Author: changed image names and added better quality images

weight: 9
aliases:
    - /tyk-rest-api/api-definition-objects/custom-analytics/
--- 

`tag_headers` is a string array of HTTP headers which can be extracted and turned to tags.

> For example if you include `X-test-header` header in the `tag_headers` array, then, for each incoming request Tyk will add a `x-test-header-<header_value>` tag to the list of tags in the request analytic record.

Reviewer: this page has an example https://tyk.io/docs/tyk-apis/tyk-gateway-api/api-definition-objects/other-root-objects/

> For example if you include `X-test-header` header in the `tag_headers` array, then, for each incoming request Tyk will add a `x-test-header-<header_value>` tag to the list of tags in the request analytic record.

Reviewer: pumps it's per pump - https://tyk.io/docs/tyk-pump/tyk-pump-configuration/tyk-pump-environment-variables/#pumpssqlaggregatemetaignore_tag_prefix_list

## When is it useful    

> If you need to record additional information from the request into the analytics, without enabling [detailed logging]({{<ref "tyk-oss-gateway/configuration#analytics_configenable_detailed_recording">}}), (which isn't always useful since consumes a lot of space when it records the full request and response objects).

Reviewer: "When enabled, detailed logging can make analytics information difficult to read and understand. Subsequently," - this is not the case - the only issue is the space consumption

> If you need to record additional information from the request into the analytics, without enabling [detailed logging]({{<ref "tyk-oss-gateway/configuration#analytics_configenable_detailed_recording">}}), (which isn't always useful since consumes a lot of space when it records the full request and response objects).

Reviewer: https://tyk.io/docs/tyk-multi-data-centre/mdcb-configuration-options/#ignore_tag_prefix_list

> If you need to record additional information from the request into the analytics, without enabling [detailed logging]({{<ref "tyk-oss-gateway/configuration#analytics_configenable_detailed_recording">}}), (which isn't always useful since consumes a lot of space when it records the full request and response objects).

Reviewer: the way it's written put emphasise on detailed logging and not on `If you need to record additional information from the request into the analytics,`

If you wish to track group of API requests.  For example
- Show me all API requests where `tenant-id=123` 
- Show me all API requests where `user-group=abc`

## Tags and Aggregated analytics

> Tag, by default, creates aggregations for the tags it records. Since we are making the header name that is recored part of the tag value, Tyk, will also add an aggregation point for that tag value in the aggregated analytics.

Reviewer: no it's a tag. we create a "tag" from the values in "tah_header" array. There are tags created in a different way, for example - org id, API id, key hash (check the tags section in the image tyk-docs/assets/img/custom-analytics-tags/log-browser.png)

### How to avoid creating aggregated analytics

> If you don't want to have aggregation for these tags you can add them or their prefixes to `ignore_tag_prefix_list` in `pump.conf` in case the pump is writing the aggregated analytics to MongoDB. Alternatively, in case MDCB is doing the writing to mongoDB, set the same field in `tyk_sink.conf` at root level (please note that this field is replacing `aggregates_ignore_tags` which is still working but will eventually be deprecated).

Reviewer 2: Consider adding an introduction sentence that explains that it is possible to specify which tags are ignored when writing to MongoDB. Something, like that suggested below. 

Maybe also add links to Tyk Pump and MDCB configuration docs that contain this configuration option for how to ignore tags.

```suggestion
It is possible to configure a list of tags that are ignored when writing aggregated analytics to MongoDB. This can be configured for Tyk Pump and MDCB.

- **Tyk Pump**: Add tags or their prefixes to `ignore_tag_prefix_list` in `pump.conf`.
- **MDCB**: Add tags or their prefixes to `ignore_tag_prefix_list` in `tyk_sink.conf` at root level. (Please note that this field is replacing `aggregates_ignore_tags` which is still working but will eventually be deprecated).
```

Reviewer: https://tyk.io/docs/tyk-multi-data-centre/mdcb-configuration-options/#ignore_tag_prefix_list

{{< warning success >}}
**Warning**

If you add to the tags list headers that are **unique** per request, like timestamp or [X-Request-Id]({{<ref "context-variables#the-available-context-variables-are" >}}), then Tyk Gateway will essentially create an aggregation point **per request*, and the number of these tags in an hour will be equal to the number of requests.
<br/>
Since there's no real value in aggregating something that has a total of 1 and also the hourly aggregation documents can grow very quickly, we recommend to always add the header name to the ignore list as follows:

    "ignore_tag_prefix_list": [ "x-request-id" ]

{{< /warning >}}

> ## Guide to set up and test tag headers in the dashboard

Reviewer 2: Consider using consistent headings for how to explanations, e.g. the previous section used the phrase how to

```suggestion
## How to set up and test tag headers in the dashboard?
```

> ## Guide to set up and test tag headers in the dashboard

Reviewer 2: Consider using consistent headings for how to explanations, e.g. the previous section used the phrase how to

```suggestion
## How to set up and test tag headers in the dashboard?
```

> 1. In the Dashboard, with an API configured, open your API and head to "Advanced Options".

Reviewer 2: Like this section with step by step explanation and accompanying screenshots. 

```suggestion
1. In the Dashboard, with an API configured, open your API and click on "Advanced Options".
```

2. Set up: Navigate down to the Tag Headers section and add `X-Team-Name` to the list.

{{< img src="/img/custom-analytics-tags/tag-headers.png" alt="Tag Headers" >}}

> 3. Test: Using your preferred HTTP client, pass the `X-Team-Name` header and make a request to test out your work. For example, with curl run the following

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Test: Using your preferred HTTP client, make a request that includes the `X-Team-Name` header. For example, with curl run the following:
```

```curl
curl http://tyk-gateway.localhost:8080/basic-open-api/get -H "X-Team-Name: devops-us-1" -vv
```

> 4. Check: Navigate back to the Dashboard and select the "Log Browser" to view the logged requests. Open the request record and in the "Gateway Metadata" section (on theright), you can find the "Tags" attached to our request. There you should see the header and value you sent to in the reuquest and that Tyk Gateway recorded as a `tag`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Check: Navigate back to the Dashboard and select the "Log Browser" option to view the logged requests. Open the request record and in the "Gateway Metadata" section (on the right), you can find the "Tags" attached to our request. There you should see the header and value you sent in the request. You should also see that Tyk Gateway recorded it as a `tag`.
```

weight: 9
aliases:
    - /tyk-rest-api/api-definition-objects/custom-analytics/
--- 

`tag_headers` is a string array of HTTP headers that can be extracted and transformed into tags.

For example if you include `X-test-header` header in the `tag_headers` array, then, for each incoming request Tyk will add a `x-test-header-<header_value>` tag to the list of tags in the request analytic record.

## When is it useful?

> Example use cases are:

Reviewer: @dcs3spp This fits the content in lines 24-25, not here

    - /tyk-rest-api/api-definition-objects/custom-analytics/
---

Configuration:

> With an API configured, click in to your newly created API and head to Advanced Options. 

Reviewer: Advanced options where? gw? dashboard? we have oss users and users of REST apis. we need to write it with some context

Author: I clarified that this is located in the dashboard and pushed that change

> Navigate down to the Tag Headers section and pass in X-Request-Id to the Header Tag array. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate down to the Tag Headers section and pass in `X-Request-Id` to the Header Tag array. 
```

Author: I added the `` and pushed the change. I also moved the preview to the top and the configuration explanation to the bottom.

### How to avoid the creation of aggregation analytics?

If you don't want or need aggregated analytics for the headers you record with `tag_headers`, it is possible to set Tyk to ignore them, by creating a list of tags to ignore.

> This is done while writing the recorded *aggregated analytics* to the data stores. configure a list of tags that are ignored when writing *aggregated analytics* to MongoDB. This can be configured for Tyk Pump and MDCB.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is done while writing the recorded *aggregated analytics* to the data stores. Configure a list of tags that are ignored when writing *aggregated analytics* to MongoDB. This can be configured for Tyk Pump and MDCB.
```
